---
layout: post
title: "So, You Want To Make A Difference When It Comes to Climate Change"
tags: Climate
---


## So, You Want To Make A Difference When It Comes to Climate Change

I've thought the same myself more than a few times so I thought it might do some good to share some of my thoughts.

The very first thing that must be said is this: **the systems we rely on must change**.

Most individuals have very little control over climate change. 

Short of revolutionary innovation that does not yet exist, humans must radically change the way we live.

Without fundamentally reimagining our systems, all other efforts we make will fall short. 


<div id="co2-widget-container"></div><script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.climatelevels.org/graphs/js/co2.php?theme=default&pid=2degreesinstitute"></script>


### Steps you can take 

*I'll add to/ revise this list over time*

**1. Talk about it**

This does not seem like a very tangible step to take - but it is. Talk with your family, friends, colleagues at work, whoever it is you speak with regularly. 

**2. Vote**

If you live somewhere were you have the right to influence decsions locally, regionally, or nationally - use it. Drastic policy change is needed to accelerate our transition away from fossil fuels. 

**3. Reconsider your diet**

Consider food products from animals require the animal to be born, provided food & water, butchered, processed, transported, etc. The CO2 emissions associated with 100g of beef is estimated to be 15.5kg<sup>1</sup>. That means that for all beef you *purchase* (not just consume), 155 times as much mass in the form of carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere. 

Furthermore, the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) estimates that emissions from all animal agriculture amount to 14.5% of all greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  is now out of date. In returning to the FAO’s own explanation of its data sources and its more recent analysis of emissions from animal agriculture, this article finds that the figure of minimum estimate should be updated to 16.5%. (citation needed)

**4. Travel & Transportation**



*Too be continued*

<sup>1</sup> https://www.co2everything.com/co2e-of/beef

